for those of you who watched my channel
regularly I think nothing I'm about to
say will really surprise you um a regard
so called white guilt as problematic not
because it's a form of guilt
I actually think guilt can be quite a
positive motivating force in people's
lives
I always make fun hours on this I always
say my values are very bronze age
they're very unfashionable I know that
these days people think you should never
feel guilty she never feel bad at myself
I think it's great I'm Pro guilt did
something terrible in your life feel
guilty about it great learn from your
sense of guilt learn fear sense of shame
change take on a new direction I've had
I think guilt give me something
wonderful as part of the human
experience my views are decidedly
unfashionable in 2017 but look you know
with the white guilt phenomenon I've
encountered it when I was working on
First Nations peoples and languages so
Kree ship way you know languages and
politics that in America that would call
Native American and Canada we call First
Nations I encountered it in many
different forms in Southeast Asia people
dealing with the history the long shadow
of America's involvement in Vietnam
Cambodia in Wars there and what have you
and I mean you know it's not meaningless
I'm not gonna come out here and say you
know white guilt is meal look many
things in this world you can recognize
that something is deeply flawed and
problematic and at the same time
recognize that the people involved with
it are actually motivated to make the
world a better place that's definitely
the case with white guilt both of the
people who experience it and with the
people who kind of weaponize it who kind
of turned it into something that used to
humiliate others and carry on left-wing
political discourse these are people
however misguided trying to make the
world a better place
and it's a lot of that goes on a course
in religion you get a lot of people
joining religious groups trying to make
the world we get a better place and they
end up making it worse this kind of very
ethically
in misconception look so what is the
problem with white guilt I've already
said the problem the problem is the
guilt has such oh no I'm not opposed not
opposed to that I think it's really
profoundly philosophically misleading to
look at this world and build your ethics
on what you would have done thirty years
ago 300 years ago 500 years ago why is
it so misleading first and foremost
because on an emotional level the people
who indulge in this way of thinking
people who look back even at American
the American war in Vietnam or the slave
trade you know the involvement of let's
say the French Empire in slave trade
people look back at that and say oh no
no I'm superior to those people because
if I were in their position I would have
never made that decision at the same
time that people perceive white guilt as
self-abnegation or you know
self-criticism from white people laying
themselves low in reality in a more
subtle sense what they're doing is
declaring themselves in a totally
meaningless sense morally superior it's
really based on an attachment a
sanctimonious it's the word I was
looking for it is a truly sanctimonious
sentiment and I've never met someone who
responded to white guilt by getting
motivated to look at what were the
factors what were the reasons why their
ancestors theoretically their ancestors
but a why people in centuries past or
even in decades past made these
decisions and so it it seems to lend
itself to this kind of two dimensional
reduction of history
did you on the one hand just serving as
a self congratulatory award that you
know you're you're supposedly so much
better than these people live these
other circumstances and I mean you know
so there's the element of
self-righteousness
which is a very ugly pairing with
ignorance now if you're gonna study
history if you're gonna study politics
really this is about politics but we're
talking about politics in the past tense
here you've really got to practice
having sympathy for the devil because
sympathy will lead you to productive new
research and analysis and this kind of
sanctimonious self-congratulation it's
involved with white guilt well not on a
two-dimensional level dealing with it in
this ultra simplified way it seems like
the most ridiculous thing in the world
that in the 20th century the American
intelligence service including the the
CIA became deeply involved in
international drug trafficking American
spies became international
dope dealers heroin and cocaine this is
not an against conspiracy theory this is
an incredibly well documented fact
including by the way extensive hearings
in the u.s. house of Congress what have
you it's so easy to look back I mean
especially what maybe you're a tourist
who goes to Vietnam Cambodia Laos so if
I can say this is a terrible stain on
American democracy how could anyone ever
do this I would never do this this is
unthinkable to me etc it is unthinkable
because you're looking at it with
absolutely zero historical context I I
don't think anyone at the CIA ever sat
down and said hey I got a great idea
let's turn this intelligence
organization into a dope-dealing of it
here's what did happen France was
defeated in the Battle of Dien Bien Phu
and that was a disaster and a calamity
for France because contrary to popular
belief the leadership of France
including Charles de Gaulle wanted the
French Empire to go on forever they
handed over control of Indochina French
control of Vietnam Laos Cambodia to the
United States that was as I recall at
the time when the CIA was still just
being organized out of the post-world
War two black ops division the OSS
the various intelligence services so I
think it is not quite accurate to refer
to them as the CIA at that moments I may
be off by a couple of years so American
military intelligence under one heading
or another has handed over to them
a fully functional self-funding
dope-dealing system the French very
intentionally designed their colonies to
have a self-funding secret service and
they were hoping to eventually have us
self-funding military and a self-funding
occupation built on a very poorly
understood imitation of the British
Empire in India maybe a century earlier
[Music]
so is this an excuse no if you were the
director of the CIA and someone told you
hey we've just inherited this
functioning ongoing opium smuggling ring
that's you know created devised and
operated by French intelligence in
Indochina what would you do well it's a
mysterious thing about history we should
all learn from what would motivate the
Americans to take over that drug-dealing
operation I can tell you right now the
belief that they would do it better
profoundly appealing human beings at
every stage in the history of slavery
whether you're looking at you know the
earliest days when the transatlantic
slave trade is a new idea or later when
it's become entrenched and culturally
accepted the easiest thing in the world
was for a French colony to look across
the the fence at a Spanish colony and
say those people are the barbarians
those are the guys doing a bad job
and if you read primary source documents
from almost any period in the history of
slavery this may be true you could even
say any period of any colonial empire
you'll always find them looking across
the fence at their rivals and fascinate
two very specific ethical differences so
I can remember reading the French in
Haiti that an incredibly brutal system
of slavery by the way as you know even
by the standards of the Caribbean
looking across the fret the the the
fence so to speak at Cuba and saying Oh
in Cuba the slave masters use dogs they
have hunting dogs to smell the slaves
and chase them and also to torture them
to have the dogs biting sight and we
don't do that this is civilization
versus savagery and on the other side
you know there were spanish-speaking
colonies there I'm sorry I don't
remember offhand the names that looked
at Haiti and looked down their noses at
how brutal the system of slavery was in
in Haiti than French colony because
among other things the slaves in the
French colony were quite eager to escape
to become slaves in the more humane
conditions of the nearby
spanish-speaking colonies there's quite
a lot of that going on there were slaves
who had to choose between more than one
system of slavery or more than let's say
say it's always so easy to look down
your nose at your competitors and it's
always so easy to convince yourself that
no matter how bad or evil a thing is you
will do it better than them you will do
it better than they would or they did
the people who are there before you the
people on the other side of the fence
absolutely certain that the Americans
took over control of Indochina of the
French Empire and Vietnam Laos Cambodia
with one simple certainty however bad a
job they might do at least they would do
better than the French yes taking over
an opium smuggling operation might be a
bad and evil thing but we can't be any
worse than those guys at least at least
we'll do a better job and it did have
profound long-term consequence I think
in a really meaningful sense the later
scandals like iran-contra the
contr fair the various scandals that
exposed American military Americans CIA
involvement in either
cocaine's trafficking opium trafficking
or both you know specific deals of
trading drugs for guns and supporting
you know covert ops and paramilitary
groups these kinds of arrangements in
South America in Central Asia and
Southeast Asia I think in a very
meaningful sense they're all connected
to the precedent that was said at the
end of World War two
after Gen Bien Phu when the French
handed over control of their operation
to the Americans so the French imitated
the British specifically the
dope-dealing British Empire in India the
Americans imitated the French and you
know I do have sympathy for the devil
when I look at the decisions made by
people like Nixon and Mao Zedong you
know I do enough research so that I can
understand what their reasons were
because simply the point of sympathy
it's a very interesting contrast
sympathy versus guilt I think both can
play a positive role in your life I'm
not here to say guilt is all bad I think
that the real value of sympathy is as an
analytical tool it's to draw you into a
more meaningful understanding of what
the problem is
I don't sympathize with Richard Nixon so
I can so I can weep on my pillow
thinking about what he what a hard time
he had when he pushed the button to drop
all those bombs on Laos and Cambodia and
Vietnam no of course in an obvious sense
Richard Nixon was a really despicable
person in his duel for sure I sympathize
with him so that I can understand what
his reasons were for the decisions that
he made and once you understand those
reasons you don't feel guilt
you don't feel white guilt you don't
feel Chinese guilt you don't feel
Japanese to kill you don't feel guilt
instead you have a level
understanding and it becomes apparent to
you that if you were in that person's
position maybe just maybe you would have
made the same decision